# recipes

## Table of Contents

- [Requirements](##requirements)
- [Initialization](##initialization)
- [Setup](##setup)
- [Deployment](##deployment)
- [Supplement](##supplement)

## Requirements

- Docker 19.x
  If you run the project locally, the followings are required.
- Ruby 3.0.0
- Bundler 2.1.x
- Node.js 14.15.1
- Yarn 1.22.x
- MySQL 8.0.x

## Setup

Setup procedure of development environment.
Run `cp env.example .env` and open `.env` file to edit environment variables.

### Docker environment

Build docker containers

```bash
docker-compose build
```

Initialize

```bash
docker-compose run web ruby ./bin/initialize
```

Setup database

```bash
docker-compose run web bundle exec rake db:create db:migrate db:seed
```

Start the app

```bash
docker-compose up
```

### Local environment

Install dependencies

````bash
## Install gems
bundle install
Start mysql and setup database
```bash
bin/rake db:create db:migrate db:seed
````

Start the app

```bash
## API server
bin/rails s
```

Start console

```bash
bin/rails c
```

## Deployment

Once you created the staging and production environments in Jitera's DevOps menu, you can deploy to staging by pushing a new commit to `develop` branch, and to production by pushing a new commit to `master` branch.

## Supplement

This project was generated by jitera automation, run by Jitera.

## NOTES

- Modified Recipe model 'time' attribute data type to be integer as user can save any type of string whether its minutes or hours and can make spelling mistake as well, need a well defined structure for storing time data.
- Added validation to time attribute in recipe model.

## IMPROVEMENT REQUIRED

- Indentation needs to be proper, maybe can use rubocop for proper code formatting.
- Code can be reused in controllers.
- Strong parameters should be used in controllers to prevent sql injection.
- Rspecs need to cover all test cases/scenarios.
- CanCan gem can be used to control access privileges.
